[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "header": "X icon",
    "content": "Bhutan is quietly unwinding one of the most unusual bitcoin experiments any government has ever run. The Royal Government of Bhutan transferred roughly 319.7 BTC worth $22.68 million to two addresses on Thursday, according to Arkham Intelligence data. Roughly 250 BTC went to a wallet previously used to route funds for sale via Galaxy Digital and OKX. Another 69.7 BTC was sent to a new, unmarked address. The transaction is part of a series of ongoing sales that have been going on for a while. Bhutan held approximately 13,000 BTC in October 2024, accumulated through a hydropower-backed mining operation run by Druk Holding and Investments, the kingdom's sovereign wealth fund. That was the proof-of-concept for sovereign bitcoin mining. A tiny, landlocked country with cheap renewable energy, no legacy financial infrastructure to protect, and a sovereign wealth fund willing to experiment. Since then, it has sold steadily. Holdings now stand at 3,954 BTC worth roughly $280.6 million, a 70% reduction in 18 months. Arkham data shows $215.7 million in bitcoin has moved out of Bhutan's holding addresses this year alone, with $162.6 million of that going to unlabeled wallets. The selling has accelerated into a market where virtually every other major holder is doing the opposite. Strategy bought 4,871 BTC for $330 million last weekend, bringing its total to 766,970. U.S. spot ETFs absorbed approximately 50,000 BTC in March. The Ethereum Foundation staked $93 million of ether in a single day rather than sell. Even gold-backed sovereign funds have been adding to positions during the Iran conflict. Bhutan is the only sovereign-level holder visibly liquidating. But there is also a question about whether the mining operation itself is still running. Arkham data shows Bhutan's last bitcoin inflow exceeding $100,000 was recorded over a year ago. A government that once generated bitcoin from power harnessed from its own rivers may now simply be spending down what it accumulated, with no new supply coming in to replace what it sells. Druk Holdings has not responded to several emails and calls from CoinDesk over the past week, the latest of which was sent in the Asian morning hours on Friday. It has not publicly commented on the transfers or the status of its mining operation. The economics may explain the shift, however. Bhutan's mining operation was viable when difficulty was lower, and bitcoin traded above $90,000. At current levels near $71,000, with network difficulty at all-time highs and the post-halving block reward reduced to 3.125 BTC, the margins on small-scale sovereign mining have compressed significantly. The same hydropower that made Bhutan's operation novel may now generate more revenue from electricity sold to neighboring India than from bitcoin mining, as mining hardware depreciates with every difficulty adjustment. Choosing to sell rather than hold or mine is a data point about the gap between bitcoin's narrative appeal to nation-states and the operational reality of maintaining a position through a prolonged drawdown. Bhutan's remaining 3,954 BTC is now smaller than what Strategy purchases in a typical week. The kingdom that once held 13,000 bitcoin mined from its own mountains is watching a single company in Virginia accumulate more in five days than Bhutan has left. Read more: Bhutan moves another 500 bitcoin to exchanges as 2026 outflows top $150 million",
    "publish_at": "2026-04-11 02:30:00+00",
    "crawled_at": "2026-04-11 12:44:59.8612+00",
    "source_url": "https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2026/04/11/bhutan-has-sold-70-of-its-bitcoin-in-18-months-it-may-have-stopped-btc-mining-too",
    "sentiment_score": "-0.9698",
    "summary": "Bhutan is significantly reducing its Bitcoin holdings, selling off 70% of its BTC over the last 18 months, totaling $215.7 million this year alone. This selling pressure contrasts with the current market trend of accumulation by entities like MicroStrategy and through US spot ETFs. The move unwinds a unique government-backed Bitcoin mining experiment."
  },
  {
    "id": 2,
    "header": "CZ and Xu Star relive decade-old dispute on X with accusations and $1 billion bet",
    "content": "A long-running dispute between OKX founder Star Xu and Binance founder Changpeng “CZ” Zhao resurfaced Thursday, with Xu calling CZ a “habitual liar ” in a series of posts on X that revisit allegations dating back more than a decade. The clash traces back to Zhao’s brief tenure at OKCoin, founded by Xu, when he was accused in 2015 of “harmful acts of conduct” and misleading statements tied to a contract dispute involving Roger Ver, claims Zhao has previously disputed. This latest flare-up also follows an earlier public disagreement in January, when Xu blamed Binance-linked market dynamics for amplifying the Oct. 10 crypto crash, a claim Binance and other market participants disputed. The latest flare-up was triggered by CZ's memoir, published earlier this week , Xu said. He revived the decade-old issues , saying he had no “intention of revisiting these old issues involving CZ [..] but since I’ve been dragged into this again because of the book, let’s restate the facts,” he wrote. \"Out of the blue, Star [Xu] said that I had somehow forged a contract when working there [at OKCoin],\" CZ said in his book. \"... In May 2015, I got annoyed and made a public post on Reddit, obviously denying forging any contracts … while I was at it, I detailed a few problems I saw at OKCoin.\" Xu, in his recent posts, pointed to a video he said shows evidence of conflicting contract versions and reiterating that Zhao had misled the public about the matter. “After spending four months in prison, he continues to make false statements to the world,” Xu wrote, adding that “a habitual liar never changes their nature.” The dispute escalated when Xu questioned whether Zhao had misrepresented his marital status, referencing earlier CoinDesk reporting in which Zhao’s spouse was described as his “wife” in a letter submitted to a judge. Xu said he would apologize if Zhao could produce a divorce agreement signed by both parties. Zhao responded that he is “officially divorced” and challenged Xu to a $1 billion bet or any amount Xu chose, that the divorce had been finalized, saying lawyers could verify the agreement while declining to publish documents. Xu rejected the wager, citing compliance considerations tied to running a regulated exchange, and instead pressed Zhao on whether his Binance stake had been legally separated as part of any divorce. Zhao dismissed the line of questioning, saying his Binance stake was “none of your business” and accused Xu of deflecting.",
    "publish_at": "2026-04-10 15:38:47.987+00",
    "crawled_at": "2026-04-11 12:45:04.32338+00",
    "source_url": "https://www.coindesk.com/business/2026/04/10/star-xu-calls-cz-a-liar-as-founders-of-world-s-largest-crypto-exchanges-argue-over-past-allegations",
    "sentiment_score": "-0.9442",
    "summary": "A decade-old dispute between OKX's Star Xu and Binance's CZ Zhao has resurfaced, with Xu accusing Zhao of dishonesty related to a 2015 contract dispute. The conflict, triggered by CZ's new memoir, involves allegations of forged contracts and misleading statements, and has not had a clear market impact but highlights tensions between major exchange founders."
  },
  {
    "id": 3,
    "header": "The magic word for digital assets adoption and success: choice",
    "content": "Digital assets have moved well beyond the hype cycle. What began as an experiment in decentralized value transfer has evolved into a serious conversation about how capital markets, custody, settlement and asset ownership could be re-imagined for the digital age. Tokenization, programmable money and distributed ledgers may deliver faster settlement, greater transparency and new efficiencies across the financial system. The opportunity is both real and transformative, but accelerated adoption of digital assets is not guaranteed. The ecosystem’s success will not be determined by any single technology, protocol, innovator or platform. Instead, it will hinge on whether the industry embraces a principle that traditional markets have relied on and come to expect for more than a century: choice. If investors, issuers and intermediaries are forced into narrow paths and left without options, the promise of digital assets risks being constrained by the very silos they were meant to dismantle. For Web3 to flourish, market participants must be able to choose how, where and when they engage. Choice in blockchain networks: avoiding silos One of the most pressing challenges facing digital assets adoption today is fragmentation. New blockchains and networks continue to emerge, each optimized for different use cases, governance models or performance requirements. While innovation is healthy, disconnected ecosystems can quickly become a barrier to scale. Without interoperability, assets risk being locked into isolated environments, limiting liquidity, mobility and investor access. The result is a digital version of the same inefficiencies that have historically plagued financial markets, with the added benefits of being faster and more complex. Interoperability has the potential to change that result. A “network of networks” approach enables assets to move securely across platforms, enabling market participant firms and investors to take full advantage of tokenization’s potential while preserving market integrity and scale. It simplifies use cases, unlocks new business models and supports regulatory consistency, without forcing the industry to converge on a single chain. Indeed, some investors may prefer open, public blockchains, while others may gravitate toward private blockchains. It’s not a matter of ‘or’ – both can and should be available. Achieving this vision will require collaboration. Market infrastructure providers, technology firms and regulators must work together to establish frameworks that prioritize compatibility and interoperability over control. In a recent white paper authored by The Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation (DTCC) in collaboration with Clearstream, Euroclear and BCG , we explored how shared standards and coordinated governance could help advance interoperability while maintaining trust and resilience. The message was and remains clear: interoperability is foundational to scale and the future growth of digital markets. Choice in what assets to tokenize (and when!) Tokenization is often discussed as an inevitability, but inevitability should not be confused with immediacy. Not every asset will tokenize, and those that do will not do so at the same pace. For example, while The Depository Trust Corporation (DTC), as a securities depository, facilitates the post‑trade settlement of securities representing over $100 trillion in value, we are not advocating for broad, indiscriminate, or immediate tokenization. Particularly in the early stages of this ecosystem, disciplined sequencing, intentionality, and caution are essential. Certain asset classes, especially those with clear operational inefficiencies, high reconciliation costs or settlement frictions, are natural early candidates for tokenization. Others may follow as technology matures, regulatory clarity increases, and market demand evolves. Giving issuers and investors the ability to decide what makes sense for their needs, and on their timeline, reduces risk and builds confidence. Choice, in this context, is about sequencing and needs. It allows the market to learn, adapt and scale responsibly rather than forcing adoption before the infrastructure is ready. Choice in how investors want to hold real-world assets Digital transformation does not mean abandoning established investing principles and processes. For many institutional investors, tokenized assets will coexist with traditional holdings for many years to come. Some will prefer onchain representations for their operational efficiency or programmability. Others will continue to rely on established custody models, particularly as compliance and risk frameworks evolve. A successful digital asset ecosystem can support both. Investors should be able to hold assets in tokenized form alongside traditional securities – and even switch back and forth between them – without sacrificing legal certainty, operational continuity or even the feeling of being in control. Flexibility ensures participat",
    "publish_at": "2026-04-10 15:30:00+00",
    "crawled_at": "2026-04-11 12:45:06.281176+00",
    "source_url": "https://www.coindesk.com/opinion/2026/04/10/the-magic-word-for-digital-assets-adoption-and-success-choice",
    "sentiment_score": "0.5",
    "summary": "The digital asset industry's success hinges on providing choice and interoperability to avoid fragmentation and maintain momentum. Tokenization, programmable money, and distributed ledgers offer transformative potential for capital markets, but narrow pathways could hinder adoption. A diverse ecosystem with options for investors, issuers, and intermediaries is crucial for Web3 to flourish."
  },
  {
    "id": 4,
    "header": "CoinDesk 20 performance update: Hedera (HBAR) drops 1.9%, leading index lower",
    "content": "C oinDesk Indices presents its daily market update, highlighting the performance of leaders and laggards in the CoinDesk 20 Index. The CoinDesk 20 is currently trading at 2007.93, down 0.2% (-3.4) since yesterday's close. Six of 20 assets is trading higher. Leaders: AVAX (+0.6%) and BTC (+0.3%). Laggards: HBAR (-1.9%) and ADA (-1.3%). The CoinDesk 20 is a broad-based index traded on multiple platforms in several regions globally.",
    "publish_at": "2026-04-10 13:14:07.654+00",
    "crawled_at": "2026-04-11 12:45:08.33725+00",
    "source_url": "https://www.coindesk.com/coindesk-indices/2026/04/10/coindesk-20-performance-update-hedera-hbar-drops-1-9-leading-index-lower",
    "sentiment_score": "-0.9751",
    "summary": "The CoinDesk 20 index decreased by 0.2% to 2007.93, with Hedera (HBAR) experiencing the largest drop at -1.9%. Avalanche (AVAX) and Bitcoin (BTC) were the leading gainers, while Cardano (ADA) also saw a decline."
  },
  {
    "id": 5,
    "header": "Bitcoin price news: BTC moves up to $72,400 after March inflation data",
    "content": "As expected, U.S. inflation accelerated last month, driven mostly by rising energy costs linked to the Middle East conflict. Core prices, though, surprised to the downside. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) rose 0.9% in March, according to a Friday report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Economists had forecast a 0.9% rise, and February's increase was 0.3%. On a year-over-year basis, CPI was higher by 3.3% against expectations of 3.3% and February's 2.4%. Core CPI, which excludes food and energy costs, was more subdued, rising 0.2% in March versus forecasts of 0.3% and February's 0.2%. Year-over-year core CPI rose 2.6% versus forecasts of 2.7% and February's 2.5%. Trading in a tight range around the $72,000 level in the hours ahead of the news, the price of bitcoin rose to $72,400 in the moments following the report. U.S. stock index futures also posted modest gains, with the Nasdaq 100 higher by 0.3%. The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield was flat at 4.29%. Amid the war in Iran and the resulting surge in oil prices, markets over the past weeks have shifted from pricing in a series of Fed rate cuts this year to pricing in one or more rate hikes, and now expect no change in U.S. central bank monetary policy. Ahead of this morning's data, there was about a 99% chance the Fed would stay on hold at its late-April meeting and a 97% chance of the same at the mid-June meeting, according to CME FedWatch .",
    "publish_at": "2026-04-10 12:33:23.444+00",
    "crawled_at": "2026-04-11 12:45:13.946438+00",
    "source_url": "https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2026/04/10/bitcoin-rises-after-core-cpi-rose-a-less-than-forecast-0-2-in-march",
    "sentiment_score": "0.9449",
    "summary": "Bitcoin surged to $72,400 following the release of U.S. inflation data, which showed a slight increase in CPI and core CPI, though both were in line with expectations. This move coincided with modest gains in U.S. stock index futures and a flat 10-year Treasury yield, reflecting a shift away from anticipated Fed rate cuts."
  }
]